README.md, before:

# Avatar Montage

*Create a tiled montage (or collage) of GitHub Avatar images for use in all hands and other "welcome" or "thank you" slides*

This repo contains two tiny bash scripts in the `scripts/` directory. One to download avatars via `curl`, the other to create the montage via ImageMagick's `montage` command. 

Here's an example of what the resulting montage looks like using the first 98 GitHub users by user ID:

![montage](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/282759/142458138-0210ba86-d5f2-4697-9f24-49cb60dee52e.png)

Of course you can customize the output. [See below](#customizing-the-output) for details. Don't need to control the output or are looking for something simpler? Check out @jhutchings1's hosted [Thank you builder](https://github.com/jhutchings1/thank-you-builder).
## Usage

1. Clone this repo locally and `cd` into the directory
2. Add a list of GitHub handles (without the `@`) to a `handles.txt` file, one handle per line
3. Run `script/download` to fetch the avatars
4. Run`script/create` to create the montage
5. Use the resulting `montage.png` file in your presentation

## Requirements

To run the scripts, you'll need:

* `curl`, and 
* `imagemagick`

Note: You can install both on MacOS with `brew bundle`

## Customizing the output

You can customize the output by passing additional arguments to `script/create`, e.g., `script/create -tile 10x` to force the montage to be 10 images wide. See [the ImageMagick montage documentation](http://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/montage/) for a list of available options.

## Credit

Credit goes to @martinwoodward for his "very quick ruby script to create a bash script that will create a montage" for the idea, and for pointing me towards the ImageMagick `montage` command.

Commit message:

Add GitHub Action workflow and update README for automation

README.md, after:

# Avatar Montage

*Create a tiled montage (or collage) of GitHub Avatar images for use in all hands and other "welcome" or "thank you" slides*

This repo contains two tiny bash scripts in the `scripts/` directory. One to download avatars via `curl`, the other to create the montage via ImageMagick's `montage` command. 

Here's an example of what the resulting montage looks like using the first 98 GitHub users by user ID:

![montage](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/282759/142458138-0210ba86-d5f2-4697-9f24-49cb60dee52e.png)

Of course you can customize the output. [See below](#customizing-the-output) for details. Don't need to control the output or are looking for something simpler? Check out @jhutchings1's hosted [Thank you builder](https://github.com/jhutchings1/thank-you-builder).
## Usage

1. Clone this repo locally and `cd` into the directory
2. Add a list of GitHub handles (without the `@`) to a `handles.txt` file, one handle per line
3. Run `script/download` to fetch the avatars
4. Run`script/create` to create the montage
5. Use the resulting `montage.png` file in your presentation

## Requirements

To run the scripts, you'll need:

* `curl`, and 
* `imagemagick`

Note: You can install both on MacOS with `brew bundle`

## Customizing the output

You can customize the output by passing additional arguments to `script/create`, e.g., `script/create -tile 10x` to force the montage to be 10 images wide. See [the ImageMagick montage documentation](http://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/montage/) for a list of available options.

## Using GitHub Actions

You can also run the script using the provided GitHub Action workflow. This is useful for automating the process or running it without setting up the environment locally.

### Steps to Run

1. Navigate to the "Actions" tab in your GitHub repository.
2. Select the "Run Avatar Montage" workflow.
3. Click on "Run workflow" and provide the following inputs:
   - **handles**: A comma-separated list of GitHub handles (e.g., `octocat,github`).
   - **imagemagick_args** (optional): Additional arguments for the ImageMagick montage command (e.g., `-tile 10x`).
4. Click "Run workflow" to execute the script.

The workflow will generate a `montage.png` file and upload it as an artifact, which you can download from the workflow run page.

## Credit

Credit goes to @martinwoodward for his "very quick ruby script to create a bash script that will create a montage" for the idea, and for pointing me towards the ImageMagick `montage` command.
